This represents all the water used in one year in the Western United States. For the past 20 plus years, a mega drought made worse by manmade global warming has left the west drier than it's been in over a thousand years. That includes the Colorado River system where reservoirs have been depleted to record lows, which has people talking about ways to cut back. Cities are taking aim at the backyard swimming pool Restrictions such as not washing cars at home and no power washing houses, Businesses, and residents must cut their outdoor watering to just one day a week. But this is all the residential water use for 115 million people across 17 Western states. All the lawn watering and toothbrushing and pools and showers use only 6% of all water consumption. The rest of this tells a totally different story. A team of researchers came up with these water use estimates, and they found that another 8% goes towards commercial and industrial uses like offices, hotel fountains, mines, and power plants together with residential use. That's 14% of all water consumption in the west. 
All of what's left in here, The other 86% is for growing crops. Irrigated agriculture is the big story. All the other water users added together don't come close to irrigated agriculture. In the dry Western states, Farms can't count on rain, so crops need irrigation. So here's soybeans, nuts, wheat, fruits and veggies, corn. But what's even more surprising is that the biggest share of this water goes to crops. Humans don't eat. The biggest water guzzler is alfalfa. You might not recognize this plant, but if you've ever seen a bale of hay that looks greenish, that's alfalfa. Unlike a lot of crops with enough water, farmers in the west can harvest it up to 12 times a year and sell every last bit. It's about a nine to 10 month crop down in our part of the desert. And so you're farming it nine or 10 months and, and therefore you're irrigating it.
During that time, We can group alfalfa's water with the water used for other grass hazes and for corn silage together. This accounts for 32% of the West's entire water footprint. And what they have in common is that these are all crops grown almost exclusively to feed cows. That's more than all the residential and commercial uses combined. A third of all the water consumed in the west just for feeding cattle, Americans eat nearly four times more beef than the global average. Our dairy intake has been increasing for decades too, and we're not alone. At least 10% of this cattle feed ends up on Containerships crossing the Pacific to feed cows in Japan, China and the Middle East. Agriculture in the United States is filled to supply a world export market. 